# wes
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/wooga/wes.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/wooga/wes)

## Introduction
Wes is a library that helps you build actor based services in erlang.

### Actors, Channels, Commands and Reads
An _Actor_ is an isolated state and logic that acts upon this state given
input. An Actor subscribes to one channel at a time. The user interacts with
its actors via Commands and Reads.

A _Channel_ is implemented as an erlang process that among other things holds
the states of all actors that subscribe to it.

A _Command_ is sent to a channel and is then broadcasted to all actors
subscribing to that channel. Each actor can react to the command by changing
its state. A Command call returns <code>ok</code> if all actors handled the
message.

A _Read_ is sent directly to one actor. The actor returns a view of its state.

In other words, a channel is a set of actors that acts atomically to commands.
The restrictions of commands and reads make it to easier to keep your code
decoupled. All actors for a channel are persisted periodically and when a
channel stops (without signaling an error).

## Getting started

### Example project
[wes bank](https://github.com/anha0825/wes_bank) - Implements a simple bank
account model on top of wes.

## Building blocks
For each building block (except channels) wes exposes a callback interface to
implement.

### Name registry
A name registry implementation keeps track of the process each channel is
running in and to which channel an actor is listening.

### Channels
A channel receives commands and reads. Commands are broadcasted to all actors
that are listening to the channel. Reads are sent to the actor that it is aimed
for. A channel manages the timeouts for itself and for the actors connected to
it.

#### Error Handling

Any exception that occurs inside a channel will shut the channel down without
saving the actors. When resuming, the channel will have the latest persistent
state of the actors, allowing you to resume from a known state.

If the exception occurred in a command to the channel, the same exception will
be raised from the call to `wes:command/2` or `wes:command/3`.

The stats module will also get a `stop` event with an `{exception, Class,
Reason, Stacktrace}` argument so that individual error statistics can be
tracked.

### Actors
This is where the game logic lives. An actor is offline (persisted) or listens
to one channel. An actor gets all commands sent to the channel where it lives
and the read events that are sent directly to it. An actor can tell its channel
to stop and can register periodic timeout calls from the channel.

### Actor persistance
A persistance module implements read and write operations for serialized
actors.

### Statistics
A stats implementation gets statistics about what happens in each channel.
